World Economic and Social Survey 2009: Promoting Development, Saving the Planet
Chapter I: Climate change and the development challenge 
Introduction 
We are living in the best of times and in the worst of times. Over the long sweep of its history, our world has never been more prosperous, inventive or interconnected than it is today. Yet, economic insecurity has become ubiquitous (and was becoming so even before the financial meltdown), social divisions are greater than ever, and the health of the planet has never been so fragile. These are interrelated challenges that can be effectively addressed only through cooperation and collective actions, at both the national and international levels. 
In recent years, collective actions have been hampered by technocratic complacency, which privileged private means over public ends. A combination of deregulation, at both the national and international levels, and corporate leadership skills was deemed all that was needed to find the quickest and most efficient solutions to a wide range of contemporary policy challenges, from health-care provision and urban renewal to poverty alleviation and climate change. This mindset has been dominated by the rhetoric of targets, partnerships, synergies, etc., which, draining policy discussion of much of its substance, inevitably tends to ignore or gloss over the conflicts and difficult trade-offs that accompany all big policy challenges. 
Climate change will be among the biggest of those challenges over the coming decades. It is, at a very profound level, an existential threat. Recent estimates suggest that 300,000 people are dying each year as a result of global warming and the lives of 300 million more are being seriously threatened. We know a good deal more than ever before about why this is happening. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), established in 1988 by the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) and the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), has proved an invaluable source of information and analyses concerning why and how our climate is changing and with what consequences. The members of the wider scientific community have backed up their efforts with a mountain of supportive evidence and modelling exercises. Theirs is a sobering picture of how the stretching of our environmental fabric due to the emission of man-made greenhouse gases (GHGs) has already led to serious tears and is getting closer to a snapping point. The race to keep global temperatures within safe bounds is now a race against time. By 2050, there needs to be a cut in global emissions, in the order of 50-80 per cent, which is equivalent to a reduction in carbon dioxide (CO2) levels from roughly 40 gigatons (Gt) per year (at present) to 8-20 Gt. 
So far, however, increased scientific understanding and greater public awareness have not translated into a focused policy response. This is particularly true in todays advanced industrialized countries: although it is two centuries of their carbon-fuelled growth that lies behind the warming trend, they have failed to commit the resources and the ambitious political will needed to establish an alternative development path way. At the same time, the international communitymost recently at the thirteenth session of the Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change,. held in Bali, Indonesia, in December 2007has reaffirmed that growth and development remain the overriding objectives of the vast majority of people on this planet. The failure of advanced countries to match words with deeds in respect of the climate challenge has made it difficult to convince developing countries to now turn to alternative (and expensive) energy sources to meet their own (significant) development objectives. 
In 2009, a new round of climate negotiations is expected to move the agenda a big step forward. Some key questions will likely shape those negotiations, namely, How much emissions reduction should take place, and where and by when? How much will it cost to meet the targets and how will they be covered? How should a proper and enhanced global adaptation response be framed in light of the significant impacts of climate change? 
The present Survey does not try to provide any hard-and-fast answers to these questions. The answers can be found only through open, inclusive and frank negotiations among all the contracting parties. But even assuming that an agreement is reached, the work of translating it into an effective programme of transformative change will be an ongoing process which evolves through adjustments, continuous consultation and response to persistent policy challenges. Accordingly, the Survey has chosen to assemble agreed building blocks of a long-term solutionmitigation, adaptation, technology and financein order to consider what is being asked of developing countries in terms of adjustments, trade-offs and challenges, and what the international community must do to ensure that those countries are able to contribute to meeting the climate challenge without jeopardizing their development goals. 
The Survey proceeds essentially by working back from 2050, by which time there will be another 3 billion people on this planet, the vast majority of whom will be urban-dwellers and living in the developing world. If current trends continue, not only will most of them still be poor and insecure but they will also be much more vulnerable to climate-related threats posed by warmer temperatures. 
A necessary part of the solution lies in lowering the level of emissions released into the atmosphere, which is feasible to the extent that the technological know-how that can help build low-emissions path ways exists or will exist shortly. This shift, however, is neither inevitable nor inconsequential. In advanced countries, significant emissions reduction has to be accompanied by a return to full employment and a search for energy security. In developing countries, pursuing a low-emissions path must be compatible with catch-up growth, industrialization and urban expansion. 
Since the focus of this publication is to a great extent on the interrelated climate and development challenges facing policymakers in the developing world, it consequently pays particular attention to the mitigation challenge linked to energy use (chap. II). But inasmuch as building resilience with respect to climate threats is, for many poor countries, just as, or even more, important (chap. III), the Survey seeks to avoid fostering the erroneous notion that countries must choose between mitigation and adaptation. To this end, it spells out the shared opportunities and synergies to be derived from investment-led responses to both these challenges, from forging truly integrated strategies and from reviving the role of an effective developmental State (chap. IV). 
The adjustments that are being asked of developing countries are unprecedented and will carry heavy investment costs, particularly in the initial stages of the transition. Those costs present the major obstacle to the development of low-emissions, high-growth path ways. But if properly managed, the investments involved can provide developing countries with a productive basis for mobilizing their own resources to meet the climate challenge. Still, if such a transition is to happen, it will requireso as to ensure both sufficient technological transfers (chap. V) and sufficient access to financial resources (chap. VI)a level of international support and solidarity rarely mustered outside a wartime setting. 
Development in a warming world 
