The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Raisin Industry, by Gustav Eisen

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Raisin Industry
       A practical treatise on the raisin grapes, their history,
       culture and curing

Author: Gustav Eisen

Release Date: May 26, 2017 [EBook #54790]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE RAISIN INDUSTRY ***




Produced by MWS, Harry Lamé and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)









Transcriber’s Notes

  In this document, texts between _underscores_, =equal signs= and
  ~tildes~ represent texts printed in italics, in bold face and
  underlined texts, respectively.

  More Transcriber’s Notes may be found at the end of this text.




[Illustration: Muscat of Alexandria Raisin Grape, First Crop. One-half
Natural Size.]




  THE RAISIN INDUSTRY.

  A PRACTICAL TREATISE
  ON THE
  RAISIN GRAPES,
  THEIR HISTORY, CULTURE AND CURING.

  BY GUSTAV EISEN.

  SAN FRANCISCO:
  H. S. CROCKER & COMPANY, STATIONERS AND PRINTERS,
  1890.


  Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1890, by
  GUSTAV EISEN,
  in the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.




PREFACE.


Of late years the raisin industry has been prominently before the
horticulturists of California. Many people now make their living and
acquire wealth by the cultivation of the raisin grapes, and many are now
studying the methods of cultivation, pruning, curing and packing while
waiting for their vines to bear. The literature of the raisin industry
is a very scant one, and, with the exception of a few notices in works
of travel, or in treatises on general fruit culture, we find not a
single book in which this important and interesting industry is made the
special subject of study and discussion. A book on the raisin industry
may, therefore, be considered timely. I have endeavored to so write it
that it would contain something of interest to all those connected with
the growing and curing of the raisin grapes, to those who have already
succeeded in building up fame and fortune, as well as to those who have
just begun the cultivation of the vine, and who have as yet only
realized the pleasures, but not the profits, of the industry. The
historical part of the book will principally interest the former; for
the latter the practical part on cultivation, pruning, curing and
packing is intended.

As our climate and other conditions differ from those of any other
country in the world, so must our methods of cultivation and curing
differ from those practiced elsewhere. Foreign methods, while
interesting and, in some respects, of great importance to us, had to be
greatly modified and improved upon before our growers succeeded in
producing raisins equaling the best from the raisin districts of the Old
World. It has cost years of experimenting and study to attain success,
as well as much money and disappointment to many who had nothing to
guide them when they commenced.

These processes by which success was achieved can now become the
property of all, and a safe guide to even the most inexperienced
beginners. The methods advocated here are the result of practical
experience of the author, as well as of the most successful
raisin-growers of this State.

For the benefit of those of our readers who now study the raisin
industry at a distance, but whose steps may in the future be directed to
this Coast, a descriptive tour through the raisin districts of our State
has been added in order that they may see what our country is like,--the
country of the raisin and the fig; the country of almonds, olives,
oranges and prunes; the country where health, profit and enjoyment are
more than anywhere else derived from horticultural pursuits. It is for
these prospective readers, that the short biographical sketches of our
principal raisin-men are intended,--short records of the pioneers of the
raisin industry,--men who have broken the way which is now easy to
travel, and through whose experience and perseverance others are now
being benefited.

  GUSTAV EISEN.

  SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., OCTOBER, 1890.




TABLE OF CONTENTS.


                                                                   PAGE.
  HISTORICAL                                                           5

      Raisins                                                          5

      The Currant                                                      6

      Muscatels                                                        7

      Dehesa Raisins                                                   7

      Lexias or Lye-dipped Raisins                                     9

      Various Kinds of Raisins                                        10
      --Muscatels; Currants; Belvideres; Black Smyrnas; California
        Malagas; California Sun-dried Sultanas; Seedless Muscatels;
        Thompson Seedless; Dried Grapes; Lexias; California Dipped;
        Smyrnas; Faros; Huascos.


  RAISIN DISTRICTS                                                    10

    Foreign Districts                                                 10

      Raisins in Ancient Times                                        10

      Modern Raisin Districts                                         11

      The Malaga District                                             12
      --Extent and Age; Climate; Soil; location of the Vineyard;
        Varieties of Grapes; Characteristics of the Raisins; Yield
        of Grapes; Distances of the Vines; Pruning; Manuring and
        Fertilizing; Drying Floors or Sequeros; Drying and Curing;
        Packing; Labor.

      Valencia and Denia                                              15
      --Extent of the District; Soils and Appearance of the
        District; Climate; Irrigation; Quality of the Raisins;
        Planting and Care; Dipping and Scalding; Drying and Curing;
        Packing and Disposing of the Crop; Export and Production.

      Corinth and Currants                                            22
      --Historical and Geographical Notes; Characteristics and
        Quality; Soil and Irrigation; Preparation of the Land;
        Distances of the Currant Vines; Care of Cuttings; Planting
        and Grafting; Pruning the Vines; Care of the Vineyard;
        Ringing the Branches; Drying and Curing; Cost of Currant
        Vineyards in Greece; Consumption and Production.

      Smyrna Raisins                                                  30
      --Districts in Smyrna; Climate; Care of the Vines; Dipping,
        Drying and Curing; Production and Export; Cost of Vineyards
        in Smyrna; Other Varieties of Raisins.

      Italy and Italian Raisins                                       36
      --Lipari and Belvidere; Pantellaria; Calabria.

      Chile and Huasco Raisins                                        36
      --Characteristics; Location; Varieties; Soils; Climate;
        Irrigation; The Vineyard; Drying and Curing.

    California Raisin Districts                                       38

      A General Review                                                38
      --Early History; Later Planting; Acreage and Crops.

      Yolo and Solano                                                 40
      --Soil and Climate; The Vineyard; The Crop.

      Northern California                                             43
      --General Remarks; Placer County; Yuba County; Sutter County;
        Colusa County; Butte County; Tehama County; Shasta County.

      Fresno, Merced, Tulare and Kern                                 44
      --Extent and Location; Soils and Climate; Irrigation; The
        Vineyard; Pruning and Other Operations; The Crop.

      San Bernardino County                                           48
      --Location and Acreage; Climate; Irrigation; Soils; The
        Vineyard; The Crop; The Profits and Other Items.

      Orange County and Santa Ana                                     52
      --General Remarks; Location; Climate; Soils and Ripening; The
        Vineyard; The Crop and its Curing; Yield and Profits.

      San Diego and El Cajon                                          55
      --Location and Acreage; Climate and Rainfall; Soils; The Vines
        and the Vineyard; The Crop.

      Other Raisin Districts                                          59


  CLIMATIC CONDITIONS, SOILS, LOCATION AND IRRIGATION                 60

      Climatic Conditions Favorable and Unfavorable to the Raisin
      Industry                                                        60
      --Limits of the Raisin Districts; Dry Seasons, Spring and Fall
        Rains; Winter Rains; Frost in Spring and Winter; Summer
        Temperature; Winds, Injurious and Beneficial; Fogs and
        Moisture in the Air; Ideal Conditions of Climate.

      Soils                                                           67
      --General Remarks; Malaga; Valencia and Denia; Smyrna; Zante;
        Chile; Fresno; Other Soils in San Joaquin Valley; Orange
        County; Redlands and Riverside; El Cajon; Subsoils; Hardpan
        Soils; Comparative Value of Soils; Alkali Soils;
        Fertilizing.

      Irrigation                                                      77
      --Introductory Notes; the Necessity of Irrigating the Raisin
        Vines; Health and Longevity  of Irrigated Vines; The Bearing
        Quality of Irrigated Vines; Quality of Irrigated Grapes;
        Various Methods of Irrigation; Irrigation by Flooding;
        Irrigation by Furrowing; Subirrigation; Seepage; Drainage;
        The Influence of Irrigation on the Soil.

      The Raisin Grapes                                               87
      --Introductory Notes; Muscatel or Gordo Blanco; Muscat of
        Alexandria; Huasco Muscat; Other Varieties of Muscat;
        Seedless Sultana; Black Currant; Other Varieties of
        Currants; Thompson Seedless; Other Seedless Grapes; Malaga;
        Feher Szagos; Other Raisin Grapes.


  DISEASES AND INSECT PESTS                                           93

      Powdery Mildew or Uncinula                                      93
      --General Notes; Characteristics; History and Distribution;
        Remedies.

      Downy Mildew or Peronospora                                     95
      --General Notes.

      The Vine Plague                                                 96
      --Characteristics; Nature and Cause; Damages; Remedies.

      Leaf-hopper                                                     98
      --Characteristics; Damages; Distribution; Remedies.

      Red Spider                                                     100
      --Characteristics; Remedies.

      Caterpillars                                                   100
      --Characteristics; Damages; Remedies.

      Black-knot                                                     102
      --Characteristics; Remedies.

      Grasshoppers                                                   102
      --General Notes; Remedies.


  THE RAISIN VINEYARD                                                104

      Planting                                                       104
      --Distances for Muscat Vines; the Marking Out of a Vineyard;
        Relative Value of Cuttings and Rooted Vines; The Making of
        Cuttings; The Care of Cuttings; Planting Cuttings; Care of
        Young Cuttings; Transporting Cuttings to Distant Parts;
        Rooting Cuttings; Care of Rooted Cuttings; Planting Rooted
        Vines; Proper Time for Planting; Cost of Cuttings and Rooted
        Vines; Winter Plowing; Plowing Devices; Cultivation; Back-
        furrowing; Cross-plowing; Weed-cutters; Cutter-sled; Hoeing;
        Time for Cultivation.

      Grafting the Muscat on Other Stocks                            117
      --Time for Grafting Raisin-vines; Points to be Observed in
        Grafting; Various Methods of Grafting; Stocks and their
        Influence.

      Various Summer Work                                            121
      --Sulphuring; Tying Over; Covering the Vines; Thinning the
        Crop; Ringing the Vines; The Vineyard Labors of the Year.

      Pruning                                                        124
      --Winter Pruning or Pruning Hard Wood; Bleeding of the Vines;
        Summer Pruning or Pruning Green Wood; Root-pruning;
        Suckering.

      Various Vineyard Tools                                         130
      --General Notes; The Sheep’s-foot; The Planting-bar; The
        Dibble; Planting Chains; Spades; Hoes; Plows; Cultivators;
        Randel Disc Cultivators; The Ash-trough; Sulphuring Cans and
        Bellows; The Cutter-sled; Vineyard Trucks; Shears.


  DRYING AND CURING                                                  133

      California Sun-dried Raisins                                   133
      --Notes; Time of Ripening; Signs of Maturity; Picking;
        Cleaning; Drying on Trays; Turning; Reversing; Slanting the
        Trays; Elevating the Trays; Stacking Against Rain and Dew;
        Taking Up; Covering; Drying-floors; Dryers; Sweatboxes;
        Trays for Drying.

      California Lye-dipped Raisins                                  149
      --General Notes; Dipping Process; Drying and Curing; Stemming,
        Grading and Packing.


  THE PACKING-HOUSE                                                  153

      Buildings and Mechanical Appliances                            153
      --The Packing-house; The Stemmer and Grader; The Sweating-
        house; The Presses; Boxes and Cartoons; Packing Frames and
        Packing Trays; Facing-plate; Scales; Labeling Press; Tables;
        Bags and Bagholders; Trucks; Trays for Weighing; Followers;
        Paper; Tin Boxes.

      Loose Raisins                                                  158
      --Stemming and Assorting; Packing and Cleaning; Sacking;
        Facing, Top-up Method; Facing, Top-down Method; Comparative
        Value of the Two Methods.

      Layer Raisins                                                  162
      --Sweating and Equalizing; Packing Layers, Top-up Method;
        Packing Layers, Top-down Method; Filling; Nailing and
        Trimming; Labels.


  STATISTICS OF IMPORTATION, PRODUCTION AND PRICES                   169
      --Production of Raisins in California from 1873 to 1889;
        Number of Acres in Raisin Grapes in California in 1890;
        California and Malaga Prices, Importation, etc., from 1871
        to 1889; Exports of Malaga Raisins from 1864 to 1889;
        Exports of Valencia Raisins from 1850 to 1889; First Cost of
        Crop of Valencia Raisins; Production and Distribution of
        Smyrna Raisins from 1844 to 1884; World’s Raisin Production
        in 1890; Importation of Raisins, Currants and Figs into the
        United States from 1873 to 1878; Importation of Raisins,
        Currants and Figs into the United States from 1879 to 1888;
        Consumption of Currants and Raisins per Head of Total
        Population in 1884; Prices Ruling in the California Raisin
        Districts.


  THROUGH THE CALIFORNIA RAISIN DISTRICTS                            181

      Through San Joaquin Valley to Fresno                           181

      From Los Angeles to Santa Ana                                  189

      From Santa Ana to San Diego                                    192

      El Cajon                                                       195

      Riverside                                                      199

      Redlands                                                       202

      An Hour in a Packing-house                                     205


  RAISIN-GROWERS AND THEIR VINEYARDS                                 208
      --G. G. Briggs; R. B. Blowers; Robert McPherson; T. C. White;
        Miss M. F. Austin; Joseph T. Goodman; A. B. Butler; William
        Forsyth; A. D. Barling; San Joaquin Valley Raisin Packers of
        1889.


  LITERATURE                                                         215
      --Introductory; List of Books of Reference.


  GENERAL INDEX                                                      219




THE RAISIN INDUSTRY.

A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE RAISIN GRAPES, THEIR HISTORY, CULTURE AND
CURING, WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO CALIFORNIA, BY GUSTAV EISEN.

_Copyrighted._




HISTORICAL.


RAISINS.

The word “_raisin_” as spelled and pronounced to-day, is not of very
ancient origin, but rather a corruption and evolution of older words,
both spelled and pronounced differently. Thus Falstaff replies to Prince
Hal: “If reasons were as plentiful as blackberries, I would give no man
a reason upon compulsion” (Henry IV, Act II, scene 4). Also, Cooper, in
his dictionary of 1685, indicates that “_raisin_” and “_reason_” are of
identical sounds. The derivation of the word has, again, been very
variously suggested either from “red” or “rose” color, connecting it
with the German and Danish word “_rosine_;” and it has even been
suggested that the word was derived from the fact that the raisins were
cured in the “rays” of the sun. The true derivation, however, is from
the Latin word “_racemus_,” meaning a bunch or cluster. Richardson, who
first points out this derivation, quotes: “Whether a reisyn (E. V.
graap, _racemus_) of Effraym is not better than the vindages of Abiezer”
(Wicliffe Judges VIIJ, 2). “And there shall be left in it as a rasyn”
(E. V., braunches of a cluster). Marginal note, “A rasyn is a lytil bow
with a lytil fruit” (Idem. Is., XVIJ., 6). But we have much older
testimony of this derivation being the correct one. An old document
states that, in 1265 A. D., the Countess of Leicester paid in London
twelve shillings for fourteen pounds, or, as the statement reads in
Latin, “_Pro uno fraello racemorum_;” which, translated, would be, “for
one frail of bunches.” The evolution of the Latin word _racemus_ was
thus seen to have been accomplished rapidly enough; but, on account of
the illiteracy of the olden times, it was spelled and pronounced
promiscuously. Thus we meet with such spellings as “_reysyns_,” in 1266;
“_reysons_,” in 1447 (“Russell’s Book of Nurture”). In 1554 the
_Stationers’ Company_ in London paid twopence for one pound of “_greate
reasons_;” while Andrew Borde, in his “Dietary” of 1542, says that
“_great raysens be nutrytyve, specyally yf the stones be pulled out_.”
In 1578 Dodoens speaks of dried raysens. In 1685 the word “raisin” is
used and spelled as in our days, and from that time on the different
spellings were used, if not promiscuously, still without any great
uniformity. The term of “greate raysens” was introduced to distinguish
them from the smaller raisins, or currants. In our own days, the latter
is seldom classed or alluded to as a “raisin” proper, although it,
strictly speaking, should be considered as such. The tendency at present
in California is to make the distinction between “raisins” and “dried
grapes,” meaning by the former certain varieties of grapes which have
been skillfully dried and cured, and which are superior in taste,
flavor, thinness of skin and saccharine matter. “Dried grapes,” again,
are simply any kind of grape, especially wine-grapes, which have only
been dried, and which have not undergone that skillful treatment which
the grape-grower is so proud of, and justly enough designates as
“curing.” They are an outgrowth from the late efforts of the French wine
merchants to make genuine French wine out of anything that is sweet, and
as they are immensely preferable to beets, potatoes and glucose, they
will always be in demand.

With the above definition of the “raisin” accepted, we can proceed to
consider their different varieties, their names and derivations. The old
designations of the different varieties were derived from the places
where they were produced, without special reference to the grapes from
which the raisins were made. Thus we had Malagas, Currants, Valencias,
Denias, Turkish and Italian raisins. But since it has been found that
the same kinds of raisins have been produced in very different
localities, and that some localities can produce all the different
kinds, a new division has been found necessary. Thus, disregarding the
many various brands with which this and other markets are flooded, the
following different varieties of raisins will be found the principal
ones: _Currants_, _Muscatels_, _Dipped_ and _Sultana_.


THE CURRANT.

The _currant_ is one of the very oldest raisins known. As early as 75 A.
D. Pliny speaks of the fine grapes grown in Greece, the berry being
thin-skinned, juicy and sweet, and the bunch being exceedingly small.
This, then, must be the currant of later times. After this first mention
of this grape, the same drops out of history for ten centuries, and the
name currant is first to be identified with raisins de Corauntz, or
rather, “reysyns de _Corauntzs_” as late as 1334. As early as the
eleventh century, a lively traffic in this kind of raisins had taken
place between the Greek producers, the _Venetians_ and other of the
Mediterranean merchant nations. In 1334 we find them called “corauntz;”
in 1435, “corent;” and old MS. of the Grocers’ Company in London, speaks
of “x butts and vi roundelletts of resins of Corent.” Thus spelled, the
name was used for years. In 1463 “reysonys of Corawnce” were three pence
per pound, and in 1512 the Duke of Northumberland paid two pence per
pound for rasyns of Corens. In 1554 the name had changed to currans, and
the Stationers’ Company provided for a banquet “5 punde of currans at
one shilling and eight pence.” In 1558 the same company provided for “6
punde of currance for 2 shillings.” In 1578 we find in Lytes’
translation of Dodoens’s “Herbal,” in the description of different
varieties of vines, that “Small raysens, commonly called Corantes, but
more rightly raysens of Corinthe. The fruit is called in the shoppes of
the countrie,[1] passulae de Corinthe; in French, raisins de Corinthe;
in base Almaigne (Dutch) Corinthea; in English, Currantes, and small
raysens of Corynthe.” Here, then, is indicated for the first time that
the true and correct name should be “raisins of Corinth.” But we need
not follow this evolution any longer; there can be no possible doubt
that the name _currant_, the one now accepted for this class of raisins,
is derived from the town of Corinth, on the mainland of Greece,--the
Morea of our days, the Peloponnesus of the ancients. Until the time when
the Turks conquered Greece, the port of Corinth was the principal point
of export for this class of raisins, and while, after the subjection of
Greece this commerce entirely ceased, still this fruit always continued
to bear the name by which it first became known to commerce.

  [1] Holland, Dodoens was a learned Dutch botanist.


MUSCATELS.

The principal and most valued class of raisins are the Muscatels or
Muscats. They all derive their name from the Muscatel or Muscat grape,
from which these raisins are made. As to the origin of the name Muscat,
opinions differ. The most popular one is that the grape got its name
from the supposed musky flavor peculiar to this variety of grape. It is,
however, far more likely that the name is a very ancient one, and
derived from the Latin word _Musca_, meaning a fly,--these fine grapes
when drying being especially attractive to flies. The Romans called this
grape, “Uva Apiaria,” meaning bee grapes, or grapes beloved by bees,
from the fact that the bees are especially attracted to these grapes
when they are being dried. The Muscat or Muscatel would then not
originally designate a certain variety of grapes, but grapes used for
drying generally. In the course of time the name was transferred to or
especially given to the _best_ grape for drying purposes,--the Muscatel
of our own times.


DEHESA RAISINS.

The finest or at least the most expensive brand of raisins made is the
_Dehesa_ raisin of Malaga. They are produced from the Muscatel variety
and the name they bear has an interesting origin, giving us at the same
time an insight in the development of the agricultural and horticultural
resources of Spain. The word “Dehesa” is found by reference to a good
Spanish dictionary to mean pasture ground. The “Dehesa” raisins then are
pasture-ground raisins, or raisins grown on former pasture ground. The
way the raisins came to be given such a name is as follows. Between the
years 800 and the end of the fifteenth century, the fairest part of
Spain as well as Portugal was occupied by the Moors. Contrary to their
nature in other countries, they proved here extremely industrious, and
excelled both as merchants, artisans and agriculturists. The waters of
the streams were conducted to the land in aqueducts, dams were thrown
across the rivers, reservoirs were formed, and the whole of Southern
Spain became most highly cultivated, rich and prosperous. In fact, if
the historians are to be believed, and the yet remaining views of former
grandeur can be trusted, no country either in ancient or modern times
has ever in prosperity rivaled the ancient Moorish kingdoms of Granada
and Andalusia. In the thirteenth century the Christian knights and kings
of Central and Northern Spain succeeded in conquering the Moors, who
again were unmercifully expelled, massacred or enslaved, their cities
burned and razed, and the fertile and cultivated districts utterly
ruined. Vast tracts were depopulated and abandoned, and, nature taking
its course, wild grass, shrubbery and trees soon covered the former
highly cultivated plains. In the course of time these uncultivated lands
attracted the attention of the highland shepherds, who drove their herds
to them during the winters, again returning to the mountains at the
advent of the dry season.

By degrees the self-taken rights of the sheepmen became more widely
recognized, and, while the less valuable lands were taken possession of
by the poorer peasantry, these pasture lands were set apart for the
exclusive use of the sheep-owners. The pasture lands thus being free, it
was no wonder that the sheep industry flourished, and that the flocks
increased. The wool industry soon became one of the most important in
Spain. The flocks were principally owned by nobles and monks, and the
poor peasants, who constituted the only agricultural population, had
very little if any chance to oppose the ever greater encroachments of
the wandering flocks or their insolent owners. The Merinos, or moving
sheep, were wintered in the warm valleys of Andalusia, Murcia and
Estremadura, only to be again removed to the cooler mountains of Leon
and Castille at the advent of spring. What curse this would entail on
the agricultural population is easy to be seen. The sheep were moving in
bands of 10,000 each, and 700 to 800 such flocks were moved annually
twice through a country devoid of fences or inclosures of any kind.
Numerous disputes and constant bloody fights arose between farmers and
the shepherd, to settle which the “Council of the Mesta” was instituted.
In tyranny, this dreaded institution was only equaled by the famous
Inquisition, with which in birth and death it was almost
contemporaneous. In the year 1556 a code of laws was promulgated, and a
compromise was entered upon. But the tyranny of the shepherds, upheld
through their “Mesta,” was in no way diminished. The latter continually
extended its power, encroached upon new territory, appropriating
gradually the finest pastures of Spain, and finally obtained a monopoly
of the wool trade. Its tyranny became at last intolerable. The shepherds
of the Mesta were more dreaded than robbers and highwaymen in every
place through which they passed. Agriculture became almost impossible.
At last the “Mesta” was abolished by the Cortez in Cadiz in 1812, and a
few years afterwards the pastures or Dehesas were sold. One of the
finest Dehesas near Velez, Malaga, was planted to Muscatel grapes, and
through the combined fertility of the soil, and the abundance of
moisture, the vineyard proved a great success. So fine were the grapes
grown there that they attracted great attention; no such fine grapes had
ever been seen in Andalusia before. The merchants to whom the first
raisins were sold were much astonished, and wonderingly asked whence
they came. The reply, “from the Dehesa,” was from that time on applied
to the finest Muscatel grapes.


LEXIAS, OR LYE-DIPPED, AND OTHER RAISINS.

The third class of raisins are the _dipped_ raisins, so called from
being dipped in boiling lye before being dried and cured. The Spanish
name for these raisins is _Lexias_. The name _Lexia_ is, again, derived
from a more ancient word, the Latin _lixivium_, or _lixia_, meaning
_lye_. To-day the continental name for this class of raisin is _Lexias_,
when the more specific names of Denias and Valencias are not used. Here,
in America, we generally use these names, and whenever we speak of
Valencias and Denias we mean the dipped raisins of these districts. To
the above three classes of raisins we might appropriately add Sultanas
and Malagas. The Sultanas are made from the Sultana grape, a seedless
grape from Asia Minor, now grown in many Mediterranean countries, as
well as here in California. The Malagas, again, were originally the
Muscatels grown around Malaga, in Spain; but of late this name is being,
with considerable confusion, applied to a coarser raisin made in
California from a grape here called, for want of a better name, the
Malaga grape.

Among names which were formerly much used, but which have gone out of
use, was the Solis, or sun-dried raisins, especially the sun-dried
Muscatels of Malaga. As early as 1295 A. D., the Muscatels were
generally called thus: Raisins of the sun; Solis, or sun-dried, so as to
distinguish them from the inferior dipped, or Lexias. In our own time,
this name was nearly being revived, when a couple of years ago our
California _sun-dried_ raisins were spoken of in opposition to our
_machine-dried_ raisins, and when both classes had their earnest and
enthusiastic champions.

We cannot leave this chapter on names without referring to classes of
raisins receiving their names from certain localities. Of course, the
number of such names may be almost endless. It is, however, only of
interest to refer to the principal ones, such as have been known to
commerce in former days or are yet known. Thus, we designate as Malagas
any of the raisins grown and shipped from Malaga. The Smyrnas (formerly
Smirna) are those from Smyrna, in Asia Minor, both sun-dried and dipped
raisins; the Alicantes, dipped raisins, from Alicante, in Spain; the
Denias, dipped raisins from Denia, in Spain; the Valencias, dipped
raisins from Valencia (include Denias); the Lipari, raisins from the
Island of Lipari, near Sicily; the Belvideres, from the same island and
from the Island of Pantellaria; the Calabrian raisins, from Calabria, in
Italy; the Faro raisins, from the port of Faro, in Algarve, Portugal. We
have above already referred to the currants, from the town of Corinth
and the Grecian Islands, and the Malagas, from Malaga. The latter were
also known as “great raisins,” on account of their superior quality.
Among the latter we should, of course, count the California raisins;
but, unfortunately, our raisin-growers have not until quite recently
recognized the necessity of adopting names which should at once show the
locality where the raisins are produced. But we will return to this
further on.


VARIOUS KINDS OF RAISINS.

_a._ _Sun-dried_ raisins.

1. _Muscatels_, or Muscats, from Malaga or California. The former, also
known at various periods as “Solis,” or sun-dried, or “great raisins,”
on account of their very superior qualities.

2. _Currants_, raisins made of the small currant grape, originally from
Corinth.

3. _Belvideres_, raisins from Calabria, in Italy, and from the Islands
of Lipari and Pantellaria, near Sicily.

4. _Black Smyrna_, properly only a dried grape, not exported to this
country.

5. California _Malagas_, made from the Malaga grape.

6. California sun-dried _Sultanas_, made from the Sultana grapes in this
State. And, lastly,--

7. _Seedless Muscatels_, made in California, and being the smallest
Muscats separated from the larger seed-bearing berries.

8. _Thompson Seedless_, a new, very promising raisin now being produced
in this country from vines imported originally from Constantinople,
producing seedless grapes, slightly larger than the Sultanas.

9. _Dried grapes_ of any description, especially wine grapes, exported
from this and Mediterranean countries for wine-making to France, England
and the Eastern States.

_b._ _Dipped_ raisins.

10. _Lexias_, or Dipped Muscatels, from Denia, Valencia, Alicante, in
Spain.

11. California Dipped, especially second-crop Muscatels. Proper name not
yet established.

12. Smyrnas, which again may be either _Sultanas_, _Chesmes_ or
_Elemês_. The first from the Sultana grape, the two latter, the “red”
grapes, from Dipped Muscatels.

13. _Faros_, from Algarve, in Portugal, not known in this country.

_c._ _Dried in the shade._

14. _Huasco_ raisin, from Chile. To this list might be added many more
varieties of less importance.




RAISIN DISTRICTS.


_FOREIGN DISTRICTS._


RAISINS IN ANCIENT TIMES.

Previous to the production of raisins in California within the last
twenty years, the raisin industry of the world was entirely confined to
the Mediterranean district of Europe and Asia. At that period, however,
raisin grapes became more disseminated, and raisins were produced to
begin with in small quantities in widely distant countries, such as
Chile, Australia and California. By virtue of their climatic conditions,
the Mediterranean countries were the only parts of Europe where raisin
culture could be successfully carried on, though it is almost certain
that the original home of the raisin grapes must be looked for
elsewhere. In searching for the original habitat for the ancient
varieties of raisin grapes, we must look further east to ancient Persia,
or to the tablelands of Western Asia generally. In remotest antiquity,
grape culture was carried on there, and in the ancient records of
travelers in those countries we find mentioned dried and seedless
grapes. We can trace the origin of two varieties of raisin grapes to the
beginning of our era, which must then already have attained perfection.
As has been mentioned before, Pliny spoke of a small, sweet and
remarkable grape grown by the Greeks, evidently the “currant;” he also
mentions _Uva Zibebae_ and _Uva Alexandria_.

The Latins generally spoke of Uvae Apiariae or Uvae Muscae, our present
Muscatels or dried grapes generally. This carries us back fully nineteen
centuries. But we may well believe, even in want of records, that the
drying of grapes was practiced centuries before.


MODERN RAISIN DISTRICTS.

Leaving remote antiquity, it was only in the Mediterranean basin, and in
comparatively modern times, that the drying of grapes developed to an
important industry, and in more recent times yet that grapes were
exported to Northern Europe. While thus the industry is old, it was not
until the eleventh century, at the time of the Crusades, that it became
important. The returning knights brought with them taste for and
acquaintance with the products of the East. Northern Europe became the
consumers of raisins, regarding them as the greatest luxuries, only to
be afforded by the rich. It has been reserved for our time to make the
raisin a necessity even in humbler homes. The perfection to which the
raisin industry has attained is of modern origin not yet half a century
old.

The raisin districts of the world are not large, and while for centuries
every effort was made to extend the planting of raisin grapes and their
curing into raisins, few of these efforts have been crowned with
success. While raisin grapes may grow and be turned into raisins in
almost every part of the Mediterranean basin, experience has
demonstrated that it has only proved a paying business in comparatively
few localities. The reasons of this are not fully apparent; but they are
evidently dependent both upon climatic conditions and upon the
capability of the natives to learn and profit by the experiences of
others, and upon their enterprise in venturing upon a new industry. On
the other hand, it is not likely that, even with extensive experiments
and with the aid of large capital, the growing and curing of the raisin
grapes could be very extensively extended. The question there as well as
here is not one alone of agricultural consideration, but a financial
problem dependent upon the labor supply, the facilities for shipping,
climatic conditions during the curing season, etc. Such being the case,
all the more interest is attached to those localities and districts
where the raisin industry flourishes, and where there is every
probability that it will remain a success.


THE MALAGA DISTRICT.


_Extent and Age of the District._--Malaga has been known to export
raisins since 1295 A. D., but must have been a raisin-producing district
centuries before. The raisin cult, then, is no doubt of Phœnician
origin, and has been practiced in the same locality for two thousand
years or more. Under the Romans the raisin industry was continued, but
appears to have deteriorated and later on to have been abandoned
altogether, as the local tradition credits the Moors with having
re-introduced the raisin grape into Velez Malaga. The raisin district of
Malaga extends along the southern coast of Spain for a distance of sixty
or seventy miles. The district is subdivided into several other
districts. Thus, the subdistrict of Malaga proper occupies a plain
eighteen miles long by nine miles wide, in the northeast corner of which
is situated the town of Malaga.

The best part of the whole district is, however, found at Velez Malaga,
situated northeast of Malaga proper. It was here the raisin grape was
first planted by the Romans or Phœnicians, and it was here also the
devastating phylloxera first made its appearance. The raisin vineyards
extend here not over a _vega_ or plain, but occupy the fertile country
along the coast or the litoral towards Malaga proper.

Beyond Velez Malaga to Algaroba, the Muscatel grape is of inferior
quality, and is greatly superseded by the red Muscats, principally
exported to France.

Another district is _Marbella_, on the coast, and in the interior we
find _Ronda_ and _Albuñol_. Of the principal towns in these districts,
the population of Malaga is 120,000, that of Velez Malaga 24,000, of
Marbella 7,700, and of Ronda 19,000.


_Climate._--The climate of Malaga is the very mildest. Frost is almost
unknown, and is never heavy. The average temperature of Malaga during
the winter months of November to January is 56 degrees Fahrenheit, while
that of Pau in France is 41, and that of Nice 47. Malaga is well
sheltered on the north and east by mountains, but is open to the south.
It is the most equitable climate of Europe, although the winds are
sometimes trying. The summer is very tempered. The air is, however,
moist, and fog, while rare, is not entirely absent. Rain sometimes falls
during the growing season of the grapes, and quite frequently during the
drying season. But the fog is warm and not specially injurious to the
grapes, the latter often growing within reach of the spray on the
seashore.


_Soil._--The soil of the Malaga vineyards varies considerably, the best
being a reddish clayey loam with much sand and gravel. But we have also
other varieties of soil, such as the white ash, gray alluvial soils, and
the very sandy loam on the hills.


_Location of the Vineyards._--In former years, the vineyards were
principally located on the hillsides, only occasionally extending to the
level plains. Of late, however, the hillside vineyards have suffered
from the phylloxera and various other diseases, and many of them have
been dug up. The lowland vineyards are now the best, although even they
are, by far, not free from disease. Few of the vineyards are located on
entirely level ground, there being but little such in the district. The
nature of the country is rolling, with small valleys or flats. The
raisin grapes grow apparently well both inland and on the coast.
According to Consul Marston, about eighty per cent of the vineyards are
situated on rolling land, ten per cent on lowland and ten per cent on
the very coast. The vineyards on the coast are actually within reach of
the spray.

The vineyards are generally small, none being over eighty acres in
extent. Most contain, perhaps, from three to four acres each; while from
twenty to forty acres is considered a good-sized vineyard.


_Varieties of Grapes._--The principal variety used is the Gordo Blanco
or Muscatel. It is identical with the grape known by us under that name,
and which was imported to us from Malaga. But several types are found,
although none superior to the Gordo Blanco.


_Characteristics of the Raisins._--The Malaga raisins were, until
lately, the finest raisins in the world, and for the present have only
the California raisins to compete with. They are characterized by great
sweetness, deep bluish color, great size and by good keeping qualities.
The best raisins are those called Dehesas, being produced on the valley
lands of the districts.


_Yield of Grapes._--The yield of Malaga vineyards varies of course. The
best yield eight or nine tons of grapes to the acre,--just like those of
California. But there is a great difference between new and old
vineyards. In many vineyards where formerly the yield was nine tons, the
soil has been so exhausted by continuous croppings that to-day, even
with manuring, two or three tons of grapes must be considered a high
yield.


_Distances of the Vines._--The older vineyards had their vines set seven
feet by seven feet, but of late the vines are planted generally eight
feet by four feet, thus much closer than by us in California.


_Pruning._--The pruning of the vineyard is performed very much as in
California. Formerly the soil had to be removed from the vines before
they could be pruned; now this is not necessary except while the vines
are very young. The various branches are pruned back to a few inches,
with two eyes each, while the heads are elevated only a few inches above
the ground.


_Manuring and Fertilizing._--The Malaga vineyardist fully understands
the value of manuring his vineyards, and uses for this purpose not only
all fertilizers available at home, but also imports directly from
distant countries. The most valued fertilizers are the Mexican and
Chilean guanos or phosphates. The Mexican phosphate costs in Malaga
sixty-five dollars per ton; still it is used by all the principal
vineyardists, who know the value of fertilizers. In fact, concentrated
fertilizers are a necessity to the Malaga vineyards; without them they
could not be cropped. Even the most virgin soil is exhausted in ten
years’ time by constant croppings of raisin grapes; no paying crops
could be expected if fertilizers were not used yearly. This fertilizing
of the soil is, however, of recent origin, and fifty years ago was
almost unknown.

When home manures are used, it is placed in holes dug round the roots of
the vines, which, after exposure to the air for several months, are
again filled up at the advent of spring, generally in March, before the
vines start to bud.


_Drying-floors, or Sequeros._--The raisins, when picked, are dried on
so-called _sequeros_, or drying-floors, characteristic of the Malaga
district. These floors are of different sizes and lengths in different
vineyards, but everywhere constructed on the same general principles.
Where an incline or a hill is found, the floor may simply be built on
the slope, with no artificial elevation; but, where the ground is level,
the structure of the _sequero_ is different. The floor must always face
the south, and the back is raised to give the floor the proper slope.
The _sequero_ thus consists of four walls, the front one of which is
only a foot high, and the back wall from six to eight feet high. The
side walls slope between these, generally with an angle of forty-five
degrees. In length, these floors vary from forty to fifty feet,
according to the different ideas of the vineyardists. The whole interior
is filled with black gravel, and is tamped hard. These _sequeros_ are
divided in beds, fourteen feet or so wide, by tiles that are sunk, thus
forming walks of several feet in width, and which also serve for leading
off the rainwater. Around every little bed of this kind are small
upright tiles to prevent the rainwater entering from the walks. Finally,
in the center of the bed, is a long row of upright tiles, high enough to
support either boards, mats, or more generally canvas, in order that
they may shed the rain into the tile walks. The value of such floors is
evident. Being covered with canvas, etc., every night, the heat is
preserved, and every morning, when the sun rises, the grapes are yet
warm. The drying on such beds has never, in fact, been interrupted. The
drying-floors are also useful in case of too hot weather, when the
grapes can be properly sheltered with canvas and prevented from being
cooked; when finally dried, the covering, again, will serve to keep the
moisture from too quickly evaporating.


_Drying and Curing._--When the grapes are picked, the best vineyardists
separate the bunches immediately in three different grades. Each grade
is placed by itself on the gravelly drying-ground, and remains there to
dry. When half dried, they are taken bunch by bunch by a workman, who
picks out bad or overdried berries and rubbish, and in putting the bunch
back turns it over. In ten days the grapes are generally dried, provided
the weather has been favorable. Every night the canvas covering is slid
down over the _sequero_, and the grapes protected from dew and cold, or
rain. The drying is sometimes greatly hastened by the _Terral_ or hot
winds blowing from the plains of La Mancha, a wind very similar in its
effect to the desert wind of Riverside and Santa Ana, in California.


_Packing._--The raisins in Malaga are packed by the large growers
themselves, and every such grower packs almost to a man. The generally
accepted idea that a few packers living in Malaga pack all the raisins
is erroneous. This is not the case.[2] Nearly all packers there are also
growers owning their own vineyards. The raisins are all packed in
22-pound boxes or in quarters, etc., according to the demands of the
trade.

  [2] According to A. B. Butler.

The various raisin brands packed in Malaga are different according to
the different markets that are to be supplied. Thus for England we have:
Finest Dehesa, three crown; finest Dehesa, two crown; finest Dehesa, one
crown; Dehesa; Choice layers; London layers, three crown; London layers,
two crown; London layers, one crown.

For France again we have: 1 Imperiaux; 1 Royaux; Couches; Surchoix;
Choix; Ordinaire; Surcouches, etc.

The loose raisins or _Brena_ and the seedless or _Escombro_ generally go
to the continent or even to the United States. The old terms Garoon or
Sun are now never used.

For American markets we have: Imperial Dehesa; Royal finest Dehesa;
finest Dehesa; fine Dehesa; Dehesa; London layers, three crown; London
layers, two crown; London loose, one, two and three crown.

Boxes are generally made from fir imported from Portugal, at fifteen
cents each. Of late years, however, they are also received from Canada,
and cost only seven cents each.


_Labor._--The labor in Malaga is the most expensive in Spain, the best
laborer being paid forty cents per day, while in Denia the labor is
obtained for fifteen cents only; but it must be remembered that the
packing of the Malaga raisins is a much more particular work than the
packing of the dipped Denias.

The price paid for Malaga raisins at the packing-house is at an average
of seven cents per pound for the best, or from one to two cents more
than what is paid in California. The lower grades bring from two and a
half cents upwards.


VALENCIA AND DENIA.


_Extent of the Districts._--The Valencia raisins, or, as they are
called, the Lexias or Spanish dipped raisins, are produced in the
province of Valencia, situated on the east coast of Spain. The district
contains three sub-districts, the southern one, the Alicante district,
extending from Villa Joyosa in the north to Elche in the south. The
raisins of the Alicante district are inferior to those produced in the
other districts, both as regards quality and quantity. The most
northerly district is the Valencia district proper, extending from
Cullera in the south to Castellon in the north. North of the latter
place the Muscat grape does not come to perfection, and even within this
district comparatively few raisins are now produced as compared with a
few years ago. But the bulk of all the raisins produced in the province
are exported from Valencia city, and hence these raisins are known as
Valencias, while in reality they come principally from Denia.

The bulk of the Valencia raisins come from the central district, or the
Denia sub-district, comprising the land between Villa Joyosa in the
south and Cullera in the north, or about thirty miles on each side of
the town of Denia. Towards the interior the raisin district extends at
the most nine miles, but the average is less, so that the whole district
over which the Denia vineyards are spread includes only an area of 350
square miles, equal to ten townships of land, or about 224,000 acres. A
large part of this land is not cultivated, and consists of mountains and
waste places only suitable as watersheds. The town of Denia is the
principal town of the sub-district, and has now a population of about
2,600 people. It is situated about half way between Valencia in the
north and Alicante in the south, on the shore of the Mediterranean, in
about the latitude of Sacramento in California, or thirty-eight degrees,
fifty minutes north. Being one of the oldest towns in Spain, Denia was
first founded by the Phœnicians, who here established the worship of
Diana, from which word the name Denia is a corruption. The Phœnicians
also introduced the grapes, and possibly also the drying of raisins; but
the local tradition gives the honor of the latter industry to the Moors,
who are said to have brought with them the variety of grape known as the
Muscat of Alexandria. During a part of the year, Denia is the export
harbor for the raisins of the district. This is only possible in the
early part of the raisin season, as then only are the winds
favorable,--the so-called harbor being nothing but a roadstead. Later in
the season, when storms and rains set in, all the raisins are shipped to
Valencia by railroad, and from there exported by steamers and sailing
vessels.

Among other industries of the Denia district are the cultivation of
onions, the manufacture of cotton goods, its sardine fisheries, etc.,
all giving work to the vineyard workers during a time of the year when
there is nothing or but little to do in the vineyards and
packing-houses.

The raisins of Denia are not all of the same quality, but vary according
to the locality where grown. The whole district is dotted with small
villages, all producing raisins. The principal ones of these are,
besides Denia proper, Jabea, Jaraco, Jerrea, Oliva, Pedreguer, Jalon,
Gandia, Ondara, Vergel, etc. Of these, Denia proper produced in 1876
over 2,500 tons of raisins, Jabea 1,700 tons, Oliva 1,600 tons,
Pedreguer 1,000 tons, Retoria 900 tons, Jalon 850 tons, Ondara and
Benisa 800 tons each. But, besides these, there are some twenty odd more
villages or smaller raisin centers, which produce from 200 to 700 tons
each, or an aggregate of 20,000 tons of raisins.
