Legal Measures
Legislation is a critical measure for providing a harmonized framework for entities to align themselves to a
common regulatory basis, whether on the matter of prohibition of specified criminal conduct or minimum
regulatory requirements. Legal measures also allow a nation state to set down the basic response
mechanisms to breach: through investigation and prosecution of crimes and the imposition of sanctions for
non-compliance or breach of law. A legislative framework sets the minimum standards of behaviour across
the board, applicable to all, and on which further cybersecurity capabilities can be built. Ultimately, the goal
is to enable all nation states to have adequate legislation in place in order to harmonize practices
supranationally and offer a setting for interoperable measures, facilitating international combat against
cybercrime.
The legal environment can be measured based on the existence and number of legal institutions and
frameworks dealing with cybersecurity and cybercrime. The sub-group is composed of the following
performance indicators:
A. Criminal legislation
Cybercrime legislation designates laws on the unauthorized (without right) access, interference,
interception of computers, systems and data. The laws can be ranked by level: none, partial or
comprehensive. Partial legislation refers to the simple insertion of computer-related wording in an existing
criminal law or code, with language limited to extending for example fraud or forgery, or surveillance and
theft to cyberspace. Comprehensive legislation refers to the enactment of a dedicated law or act dealing
with the specific aspects of computer crime (i.e. the UK Computer Misuse Act 1990). This category can
include partial legislation where the case law or jurisprudence is extensively developed. Please specify the
types of laws and regulations and whether there are none or whether they are partial or comprehensive.
B. Regulation and compliance
Cybersecurity regulation designates laws dealing with data protection, breach notification and
certification/standardization requirements. The laws can be ranked by level: none, partial or
comprehensive. Partial regulation refers to the insertion of computer-related wording in existing or new
criminal or civil law, so that the law extends applicability to cyberspace in regulation not specifically or
uniquely related to cybersecurity (i.e. the EU Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard
to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data). Comprehensive regulation
refers to the enactment of a dedicated law, act or directive requiring cybersecurity compliance (i.e. the US
Federal Information Security Management Act 2002). Please specify the types of laws and regulations and
whether there are none or whether they are partial or comprehensive. 
