Organizational Measures
Organization and procedural measures are necessary for the proper implementation of any type of national
initiative. A broad strategic objective needs to be set by the nation state, with a comprehensive plan in
implementation, delivery and measurement. Structures such as national agencies need to put in place in
order to put the strategy into effect and evaluate the success or failure of the plan. Without a national
strategy, governance model and supervisory body, efforts in different sectors and industries become
disparate and unconnected, thwarting efforts to reach national harmonization in terms of cybersecurity
capability development.
The organizational structures can be measured based on the existence and number of institutions and
strategies organizing cybersecurity development at the national level. The creation of effective
organizational structures is necessary for promoting cybersecurity, combating cybercrime and promoting
the role of watch, warning and incident response to ensure intra-agency, cross-sector and cross-border
coordination between new and existing initiatives. The sub-group is composed of the following
performance indicators:
A. Policy
The development of a policy to promote cybersecurity is recognized as a top priority. A national strategy
for Security of Network and Information Systems should maintain resilient and reliable information
infrastructure and aim to ensure the safety of citizens; protect the material and intellectual assets of
citizens, organizations and the State; prevent cyber-attacks against critical infrastructures; and minimize
damage and recovery times from cyber-attacks. Policies on National Cybersecurity Strategies or National
Plans for the Protection of Information Infrastructures are those officially defined and endorsed by a nation
sate, and can include the following commitments: establishing clear responsibility for cybersecurity at all
levels of government (local, regional and federal or national), with clearly defined roles and responsibilities;
making a clear commitment to cybersecurity, which is public and transparent; encouraging private sector
involvement and partnership in government-led initiatives to promote cybersecurity. Please specify any
officially recognized national or sector-specific cybersecurity strategy.
B. Roadmap for governance
A roadmap for governance in cybersecurity is generally established by a national strategy /policy for
cybersecurity, and identifies key stakeholders. The development of a national policy framework is a top
priority in developing high-level governance for cybersecurity. The national policy framework must take
into account the needs of national critical information infrastructure protection. It should also seek to foster
information-sharing within the public sector, and also between the public and private sectors. Cybersecurity
governance should be built on a national framework addressing challenges and other information security
and network security issues at the national level, which could include: national strategy and policy; legal
foundations for transposing security laws into networked and online environments; involvement of all
stakeholders; developing a culture for cybersecurity; procedures for addressing ICT security breaches and
incident-handling (reporting, information sharing, alerts management, justice and police collaboration);
effective implementation of the national cybersecurity policy; cybersecurity program control, evaluation,
validation and optimization. Please specify any officially recognized national or sector-specific governance
roadmap for cybersecurity.
C. Responsible agency
A responsible agency for implementing a national cybersecurity strategy/policy can include permanent
committees, official working groups, advisory councils or cross-disciplinary centers. Most national agencies
will be directly responsible for watch and warning systems and incident response, and for the development
of organizational structures needed for coordinating responses to cyber-attacks. Please specify any officially
recognized national or sector-specific cybersecurity agency.
D. National benchmarking
This indicator measures the existence of any officially recognized national or sector-specific benchmarking
exercises or referential used to measure cybersecurity development. For example, based on ISO/IEC 27002-
2005, a national cybersecurity standard (NCSec Referential) can help nation states respond to specify
cybersecurity requirements. This referential is split into five domains: NCSec Strategy and Policies; NCSec
Organizational Structures; NCSec Implementation; National Coordination; Cybersecurity Awareness
Activities. Please specify any officially recognized national or sector-specific benchmarking exercises or
referential used to measure cybersecurity development.
