Technical Measures
Technology is the first line of defense against cyberthreats and malicious online agents. Without adequate
technical measures and the capabilities to detect and respond to cyberattacks, nation states and their
respective entities remain vulnerable to cyberthreats. The emergence and success of ICTs can only truly
prosper in a climate of trust and security. Nation states therefore need to be capable of developing
strategies for the establishment of accepted minimum security criteria and accreditation schemes for
software applications and systems. These efforts need to be accompanied by the creation of a national
entity focused on dealing with cyber incidents at a national level, at the very least with a responsible
government agency and with an accompanying national framework for watch, warning and incident
response.
Technical measures can be measured based on the existence and number of technical institutions and
frameworks dealing with cybersecurity endorsed or created by the nation state. The sub-group is composed
of the following performance indicators:

A. CERT/CIRT/CSIRT
The establishment of a national CIRT (Computer Incident Response Team), CERT (Computer Emergency
Response Team) or CSIRT (Computer Security incident Response Team) which provides the capabilities to
identify, defend, respond and manage cyber threats and enhance cyberspace security in the nation state.
This ability needs to be coupled with the gathering of its own intelligence instead of relying on secondary
reporting of security incidents whether from the CIRT’s constituencies or from other sources. Please specify
the names and number of officially approved national or sector-specific* CERT or CSIRT teams, and whether
they are legally mandated or not. The level of development will be ranked based on if there are any national
teams and whether they are legally mandated or not.
B. Standards
This indicator measures the existence of a government-approved (or endorsed) framework (or frameworks)
for the implementation of internationally recognized cybersecurity standards within the public sector
(government agencies) and within the critical infrastructure (even if operated by the private sector). These
standards include, but are not limited to those developed by the following agencies: ISO, ITU, IETF, IEEE,
ATIS, OASIS, 3GPP, 3GPP2, IAB, ISOC, ISG, ISI, ETSI, ISF, RFC, ISA, IEC, NERC, NIST, FIPS, PCI DSS, etc. Please
specify any officially-approved national (and sector specific) frameworks for implementing internationally
recognized cybersecurity standards.
C. Certification
This indicator measures the existence of a government-approved (or endorsed) framework (or frameworks)
for the certification and accreditation of national (government) agencies and public sector professionals by
internationally recognized cybersecurity standards. These certifications, accreditations and standards
include, but are not limited to, the following: Cloud Security knowledge (Cloud Security Alliance), CISSP,
SSCP, CSSLP CBK, Cybersecurity Forensic Analyst (ISC²), GIAC, GIAC GSSP (SANS), CISM, CISA, CRISC (ISACA),
CompTIA, C|CISO, CEH, ECSA, CHFI (EC Council), OSSTMM (ISECOM), PCIP/CCISP (Critical Infrastructure
Institute), (No Suggestions) Certification, Q/ISP, Software Security Engineering Certification (Security
University), CPP, PSP, PCI (ASIS), LPQ, LPC (Loss Prevention Institute, CFE (Association of Certified Fraud
Examiners), CERT-Certified Computer Security Incident Handler (SEI), CITRMS (Institute of Consumer
Financial Education), CSFA (Cybersecurity Institute), CIPP (IAPP), ABCP, CBCP, MBCP (DRI), BCCP, BCCS,
BCCE, DRCS, DRCE (BCM), CIA, CCSA (Institute of Internal Auditors), (Professional Risk Managers
International Association), PMP (Project Management Institute), etc. Please specify any officially approved
national (and sector specific) frameworks for the certification and accreditation of national agencies and
public sector professionals.
